RESURRECTION ERTUGRUL
THE STORIES AND CHARACTERS DEPICTED
HERE WERE INSPIRED BY OUR HISTORY
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED DURING
THE FILMING OF THIS PRODUCTION.
God would bear a big warrior and
unite the whole world under his flag.
And his progeny would conquer
Constantinople, take Jerusalem...
...and serve Mecca and Medina.
If God permits, we shall fight under
the flag of that warrior.
If God permits.
I hope you are right, if God permits.
I hope He sends that warrior soon
so that we can find peace, if God permits.
I would like to know these valuable God
followers who shared their food with us.
I am...
...Ibn Arabi from Andalusia.
Ertugrul from Kayi Tribe.
I brought you molasses, father.
-Thank you, my girl.
-May it be health.
Well? Tell us now, Gundogdu.
What do you want to do and
require Oguz customs?
If I was a Bey and someone
attacked my tribe...
...I would think about the punishment
I would give to the soldiers on guard.
What would you have done, Kurdoglu?
I say, Bey, the punishment given by
Suleyman Shah is well deserved.
Son, one day you may be Bey.
Look for the answer to this question then.
Now, do not busy your mind
on unnecessary business.
Just think about how you can do
your own task the best you can.
-What task is this?
-Starting from tomorrow...
...you shall be collecting
the goods to be sold in the caravan.
The caravan shall set on
the road in three days.
Bey, why doesn’t the trader
take the goods?
Karatoygar has bad intensions.
He might raid the caravan.
That is why we can’t give
the goods to the trader.
Gundogdu will do this task with his Alps.
As you wish, father.
You invited me to your table,
shared your food...
...I shall never forget this kindness.
-May it be health.
I would like permission to leave.
I need to be on my way.
The roads would be dangerous at night.
We can go together at sunrise.
Thank you but I have not seen
my family for months.
I would not want to make
them worry anymore.
I have a carpet shop in the Aleppo market.
I would like to host you there.
If we have time, we may visit.
Please be aware, son.
The crusaders may attack any moment.
-They will not be seen around here today.
-You should still be careful.
They can masquerade and pose as anything.
Thank you.
-How are you, Turgut?
-I am better. Much better.
I regained consciousness.
Where are we?
When we had the chance,
why didn’t we slain them here?
We have warriors who killed
15 soldiers of ours.
God accepted my prayers in the end.
He made me meet my enemy.
We will prepare a nice welcome ceremony
for them in Aleppo.
Hear ye, hear ye,
please let it be known...
...the caravan will set on the road
in two days!
Orders from Suleyman Shah!
Dear Akcakoca, do you know what
I thought when this crier shouted caravan?
If you had listened to what I said,
your caravan would be...
...from here to China.
-Don’t start again, Wild Demir, don’t.
Look, Akcakoca, you don’t need to
get upset. All I said was that...
...instead of dealing with these ointments
for wounds, pains, poisons and such...
...you should have done an ointment for
women, put them in fancy bottles...
...with bright colors, women would smear
them on their faces and when they...
...found themselves beautiful,
you would have been bathing in coins.
Go back to your work! Dear God!
What is happening, my girl? The cows
cannot make dung fast enough for you.
For the love of God, father!
We are all stressed out as it is.
I understand, no one likes to joke around.
Alright?
Put a bit more.
Is this much dung enough, Halime?
Yes, I hope it is enough.
Everyone is very tense. They say no good
will come out of drapes bathed in dung.
They think all their efforts
will go down in vain.
Look, Aykiz. Why do you think the drapes
they brought to Mother Hayme were faded?
Because the drapes were gray.
First of all, we need to whiten
the drapes we will dye later.
These pieces of dung will make
our drapes as white as snow.
Then you can dye any pattern you like.
Believe me, Aykiz, they will be very nice.
As long as it solves the problem.
But if we mess up, we will be in trouble.
We will be the talk of the tribe.
This one is done, Aykiz.
Dry them in the sun for some time.
May it be easy, Hatuns.
What is happening?
What are you working on?
We bathe the drapes in dung.
You bathe the drapes in dung?
I was not expecting this.
Where did this come from, Aykiz?
Halime Baci got permission
from Mother Hayme.
What punishment is this? The drapes were
the only place where dirt was not smeared.
What are you doing, Gokce? She invaded the
weavery as well, why didn’t you stop her?
What could I do, sister? Do I have a say
after Mother Hayme accepted?
Don’t you worry about it. When they mess
up this job, they will pay its price.
Why would an outsider whore pay the price?
If these goods don’t make it
to the caravan in time, we pay the price.
Sister, why are you making
a big deal out of her?
As you overrate this girl,
she starts to get more confident.
Do you know why I am making
a big deal out of her, Gokce?
Because I have a very naive sister,
that is why.
The man my sister loves,
is tangled in her web.
My sister may not see, but I do.
My sister may not hear, but I do.
The way Ertugrul looks
at this girl is not normal.
Remember my words when
you start crying after him.
I have one rose in three branches
I have sweet made of milk, my dervish
Help me, Abdul Qadir
I have a problem
Master.
I can smell your grandfather,
our Master Gilani on you, Halabi.
Thank you. Welcome, master.
We came from a long way with our guests.
Suleyman Shah’s son Ertugrul
from Kayi tribe.
They have a mission,
they will go to the palace.
Then they are in luck, master.
Today is the visiting day of the palace.
If they can see the Emir, today is the day
otherwise they have to wait one month.
The One Who Blesses, son.
Dear God, I never thought that I would use
dung to bleach the cloths one day, Halime.
You should see them after they get
snowy white. It will be worth the effort.
Then we will see the faces of those
who talk from our backs.
Well?
We can also bath your dowry drapes
in dung as well.
Of course we can.
As long as they return safe and sound.
-Is your dowry ready?
-Of course it is.
They have been laying inside
the chest for a long time.
Turgut Alp couldn’t get down
from his horse yet.
Why Turgut Alp, why?
Yes, Aykiz, it is not easy to be
the wife of an Alp.
I have been waiting for
Ertugrul Bey for years.
If it weren’t for the trader’s man
and Wild  Demir...
...my reputation would have been ruined.
Do you think Karatoygar
will continue with these violations?
We now know Numan’s worth
in the eye of Karatoygar.
He is more precious than we thought.
Karatoygar would do anything
to get him back.
What will you do?
Until Ertugrul comes with good news,
we will stay here and be ready for war.
You know the guest’s daughter, Halime?
You should see her. She works endlessly
to make the dye brighter on the drapes.
Do you think she would succeed?
They make the best money in the market.
If God permits, Bey, if God permits.
If God permits, we will migrate to Aleppo,
we can think Ertugrul’s wedding and...
Anyhow, may God let him return from Aleppo
with good news first, then we will see.
Who do you have in mind?
Gokce.
I am surprised that you find her suitable
while knowing her sister.
Gokce is different. She is a good girl.
Maybe this way, she can control
her sister’s endless ambitions.
You would not talk like this
if Gokce did not want to wed.
Well? What about Ertugrul?
Does he have the heart?
If God permits, we will see about that.
Sister, you made a fool out of me! A fool!
What are you saying, Gokce?
Because of you, I faced off with Halime
and told her that I waited for Ertugrul.
What more do you want?
You were too late to act anyway.
Sister, I guess you didn’t understand.
I said everyone heard me. Aykiz as well.
Now everyone will tease me. They will say
that I am dreaming standing up.
-This is your fault.
-Gokce!
Look at me. Do not care
even if the whole world hears it.
You will win over Ertugrul
just like I did with Gundogdu.
And you will fight with
nails, teeth and all.
With your sweet talk and your beauty,
you will win over that son of a bastard.
You will crush anyone on your path.
Just like I became Gundogdu’s wife,
you will become Ertugrul’s wife.
We have not settled the score with
Suleyman Shah yet.
Each day the killer of our father sits
in the marquee, is a shame on us...
...a wound in our heart.
I don’t have any blood left in my veins.
Do you understand? Sitting in the marquee
is our well deserved right and...
...we will get our right.
What is it you want?
Did you swallow your tongue, talk!
A man’s word is said directly
to a man’s face, Bey.
Alright.
My eyes and ears are with you. Talk now.
I came as an ambassador of
Suleyman Shah of Kayi tribe.
I am his son, my name is Ertugrul.
Well?
What do you want, son of a Bey?
I came to claim land from you.
You want land?
What will you give us in exchange?
Apart from the goats that will damage
our crops and the stench over our city?
Did the city make you forget
your roots, Bey?
How did you know that
I was Turkmen as well?
The ring on your thumb. It is obvious
that it is not a mere ornament.
It gives you away, your thumb is damaged
due to shooting arrows to infidels.
If you give us a land, in exchange
2000 Alps will be on your side...
...anytime you have trouble.
-2000 Alps?
Even the guards in my palace
is more than this.
May you have a good journey, son of a Bey.
Next.
-Bey.
-Next.
Bey.
Come on.
Your guards, count them as three less.
Congratulations.
It was the best spectacle I have watched.
Isn’t that so, Nasir? You clap as well.
Your highness Ameer.
I would like to get to know
this Turkmen warrior better.
We shall listen to the myths, stories
and sagas of the nomads from him...
...during dinner tonight, what do you say,
my dear uncle?
I would be honored, your highness.
He sent the bodies of my men.
He thinks he can intimidate me.
Pray that he did not run over
your soldiers.
What are you saying?
Is your Bey opposing the Seljuk state?
Stop speaking nonsense, Karatoygar.
And don’t try to use Seljuk state
as an excuse.
Sultan Aladdin is not aware
of the things you do here.
I am sure of that.
I understand that these prisoners will
open other doors for you in the state.
You should focus your intelligence
on your own tasks.
What does this intelligence say
about your incompetence, Kurdoglu?
You should see the incompetence of
your own men first.
They cannot even throw an ambush.
That is enough, Kurdoglu.
If you don’t bring Numan to me...
...you cannot become the Bey you wish.
I would make the sky fall on you.
You and Suleyman Shah
would be crushed below it.
If you can be patient,
we can both take what we want.
But if you trample over me,
we would both lose.
I am prepared to fight
the whole world for Numan.
Don’t you ever forget this.
Won’t you still tell me
who those prisoners are?
Don’t think about who they are,
think about who I am.
This is more important for you, Kurdoglu.
What will we do now?
I will give you Numan and
Suleyman Shah as well.
You will come to collect them
like a ripe date on a branch.
Now, listen to me closely.
When the caravan is ambushed,
Suleyman Shah cannot sit in his tent.
He will come after you.
14 carpets.
Two dozens of wooden spoon.
72 pieces of kerchief.
God bless. God bless.
Your daughter and bride worked very well.
Dear Teyze, you should tie them well so
that we don’t have a problem on the road.
We wrapped them all up, Bey.
We wrapped them very well with my husband.
We don’t have a lot but I beg you...
...protect the caravan well.
Our livestock died of starvation.
All we have is entrusted in you.
I know, Emmi, I know. Don’t you worry.
Trust God first, then us with your goods.
I chose the best Alps I have for this job.
Do not worry about it.
Do not worry, people!
-Alright?
-Yes, Bey. Alright.
Gundogdu...
...with the money I get from these knives,
I will wed my daughter, let it be known.
You cannot save yourself
from Aykiz’s wrath.
Turgut’s as well.
We don’t know the distress they are
in Aleppo, may God be with them.
With you too.
Next.
Don’t come closer.
I would crush you like a millstone.
Please don't do this!
Anytime water touches my skin,
trouble finds me.
-You would go down with me as well.
-Bamsi, there is a feast in the palace.
Decide whether you will eat with us
or in the stable.
Please don’t.
I won’t give you my blessing if you die.
Bamsi, you have no way out.
You have to bathe. Give in.
I will not! I will die but
not submit to this. I will not!
-You skunk! You asked for this!
-Dear God!
-Please don’t do this. Dear God!
-Quiet!
Do not play around.
We will be late to the palace.
You heard our Bey, do not play around.
Bey? Why are you so thoughtful?
Being invited to
Ameer’s palace is a big thing for us.
They did not give us a land
or a promise, Ilyas.
-We will see what God has planned for us.
-Amen, Bey.
This job shall be finished tonight.
Will the men you send
be able to finish the job?
You do your part, Nasir.
Which one of you hid my weapons?
What are you saying?
Didn’t we go inside together?
-But they are not here, look.
-What do you mean?
-Mine are not here either.
-They stole mine as well.
I told you! Anytime I bathe,
some trouble happens! You saw it as well!
We were careless trying to bathe you!
That’s enough! Shut up!
How will we tell this to our Bey?
What will you tell me, Turgut?
-I am asking you, Turgut.
-Bey, they stole our weapons.
What?
Please, sit.
Please come to the table, Alps.
-Did you lose a man in the fight?
-No, your highness.
So, you were ambushed in my territory.
Is that so?
We will send soldiers and not let them
nest there, right, uncle?
-Of course, your highness.
-Fine. Alright.
They were punished severe enough.
They are all dead.
I know how the famine is affecting
you nomads. Sultan Aladdin is being...
...over tolerant with you. It is known
how your herds destroy villages and towns.
The struggle between
the Oguz Tribes is another problem.
Everyone is after their herd, after food.
Famine hit the tribes hard. But a few
vigilant people cannot be an example.
I am bored. Play something more lively.
Mongols from one side,
crusaders on the other.
I am not even counting
Khwarazmshahs and the Seljuks.
We need an ally to run to this fire with
a bucket of water, not a bellow.
When the factions inside the Muslim world
is demolishing everything...
...this is what we need.
Is this not so, your highness?
It is, uncle. We need to put out the fire.
Our swords would not go back to their
sheaths, our horses don’t back down.
We also need an ally with a bucket of
water to put out the fire in our home.
How will we make a deal with you, Turkmen?
We would like a fertile winter quarter
for our tribe.
A quarter.
First you ask a quarter.
Then that would turn into a moorland.
Then you would demand a whole territory.
True, we would.
If I gave you Aleppo...
...would you be satisfied?
Instead of offending an Ameer
who opened his land for us...
...we would let all the herds
we have starve.
-But I have reservations, Ertugrul.
-I am here to clear them up.
We thank you for the presents
Kayi ambassadors brought for us.
If you accept,
we also have some presents for you.
These are our weapons.
Now tell me, Ertugrul. How can we trust
the promises of warriors who cannot...
...even hold on to their weapons
during peace?
Why are you there, Nasir?
We are having fun here, come beside me.
Now you can go. Go and rest.
You came from a long way.
I will consult with my commanders
tomorrow and give you my decision.
I herewith swear that from now on,
a hand that cannot claim his sword...
...shall not hold any other weapon.
I wish our weapons had been
struck by lightning...
...so that our Ertugrul Bey
would not have been humiliated like this.
I wonder what Ertugrul Bey feels
right now. He must be in rage.
Peace be upon you.
And peace be upon you,
with God’s Grace and Mercy.
With peace in our world and beyond,
we commemorate one of your followers...
...who was full of love,
his highness Abdul Qadir Gilani.
Great God...
...You never make a subject
carry a load too heavy for him.
You put the load of the whole tribe
on my shoulders.
Grant me a way to carry this load.
You took Jonah out from a hole and made
him Sultan of Egypt. Please grant me...
...an opportunity so that I can climb up
from this bottomless pit I have fallen.
Wake up, my son.
Translation: Suzan Mıhladız